What do you need? What do you want?
There's a big difference between things that are absolutely necessary and
Things that we might enjoy or things that would make our life a little more comfortable even though they're not essential
In 1956 a newspaper columnist made an interesting observation
He estimated that a hundred years earlier in 1856
man basically had 72
Wants of which only 16 were necessities and men of that day were being urged by advertisers to buy about 200 items
But by 1956 the number of wants had grown to
474 of which 94
Reviewed as necessities and men were being bombarded with ads to buy about 32,000 articles
The columnist conclusion
man's necessities are few
His wants
Infinite
Now if he'd made the same estimates today, I'm sure the figures would be a lot higher
The commercial world constantly pressures us not only to buy things
But to view as necessities things that should really be classified as once
Seen the clear difference between our needs and our wants is a key to avoiding the snare of
materialism and we appreciate the frequent reminders that we receive from the faithful and discrete slave
These help us to have the proper view of
Material things for example the text today is taken from an article that had the very clear title
Seek the kingdom not things
And the theme scripture was Luke 1231 where it says keep seeking his kingdom and these things will be added to you
It's essential that we have faith in those words
We fully trust that Jehovah is going to provide our physical needs as long as we put his worship first in our lives
There was a simple definition of materialism in the study article. It's found in paragraph 3
Now, it didn't say that materialism is having a large bank account living in a big house or driving a fancy automobile
Rather it said materialism is the preoccupation
With material things rather than with spiritual riches
So materialism materialism really is a condition of our mind and our heart
So it's good to ask ourselves
What am I constantly thinking about when I get together with my friends? What is the subject of our conversation?
As our commenters pointed out the spirit of materialism can infect anyone
Even pioneers even
Bethelites it infected Christians in the first century
Please open your Bibles through Revelation chapter 3 and
We'll notice here that apparently many in the congregation had become contaminated by the materialistic environment
In the city of Leodicea and notice the strong council that Jesus gave to those who were putting their trust in
material riches
Revelation 3 verse 17 says
Because you say I am rich and have acquired riches and do not need anything at all
But you do not know that you are miserable and pitiful and poor and blind and naked
Now were these Christians materially rich? Yes, but Jesus said they were in spiritual poverty
Did they wear fine clothing?
No doubt, but in Jesus eyes they were naked
So we can see that they were in a bad spiritual state
Was there any cure for the Leodicean spiritual sickness? Yes, look back at chapter 3 in the first part of verse 18
Interestingly, Jesus told them that the remedy for trusting in riches was to buy gold
But what kind of gold?
He said I advise you to buy from me
Gold refined by fire so that you may become rich
Yes, spiritual riches are what?
Are important only spiritual treasures are lasting
Material possessions are merely a means to an end. We need them to keep on living and we need them to carry out our worship of Jehovah
So we need to ask ourselves
What are my priorities?
Where is my focus?
Sally and I found ourselves asking these questions during a recent branch visit
We met brothers in countries where the kingdom work is under various degrees of restriction
They have no witnessing cards. They can't offer literature door to door
In one country brothers can be arrested and fined the equivalent of six weeks wages
Just for witnessing in public
In some places police would confiscate your phone or your tablet if they found that it contained the JW library app
In another country when police police would find JW library on your device
They would just erase the app and then give the device back to the publisher
But in spite of these obstacles and threats
Our brothers are finding true joy in serving Jehovah and you can imagine it was inspiring to be able to work with them
During this time
In one country we met with circuit overseers from three different language groups. I asked them the question
What do our brothers need most?
In unison they immediately replied
Armageddon
That really put things in perspective for me
These brothers are not preoccupied with material things
For them every day is a matter of spiritual survival
Stay faithful
Meet regularly
Preach informally
These are the most important things the things that really matter
So how fitting is the reminder at Proverbs chapter 11 verse 4 where it says
Wealth will be of no benefit on the day of fury
But righteousness is what will rescue from death
Yes, we may have some possessions that we view as very valuable
We may treasure them maybe it's something we received as a family heirloom
But we should not expect that any of our possessions
Regardless of how treasured or how valuable they may be
Will survive with us through the great tribulation
Please open your Bibles to Jeremiah chapter 45
Go into read verse 5 in this scripture will help us to maintain the proper viewpoint of material things
These are words are redirected to Jeremiah's secretary barrack
Jeremiah 45 verse 5 says but you are seeking great things for yourself
Stop seeking such things
For I am about to bring a calamity on all flesh declares Jehovah and wherever you may go
I will grant you your life as a spoil
Whether these great things barrack was seeking were material possessions we do not know
What we do know is that when the great tribulation breaks out
All of us will be grateful to come out of that tribulation with our life as a spoil
And whether we survive that great tribulation or not
Could very well depend on how we answer these two questions right now
What do I want?
What do I need